# Project_College_Image-Segmentation-of-CT-Images-of-bone-metastases.-


Bone Metastases is caused by the tumour cells in the primary site (source) which break away into circulation to interact with the bone micro environment. Spinal metastasis is the third most common metastasis seen in cancer patients. The need for finding the exact location of the lesions is very important for the appropriate treatment. If the boundaries detected are smaller than the actual size of the tumor then some of the tumor cells are likely to be neglected which can cause further increase in their growth. On the other hand, if the boundary detected is larger than the actual size, then it leads to treatment which harms the healthier cells. Our objective is to find the exact boundary of the tumor using various segmentation techniques.
             
The project is carried out with the following two methods, Threshold based: Fundamentally, it is converting a color or grayscale image to binary image where each pixel is assigned a threshold value (T). Here, we are using this to locate lesions which are our area of interest, from the background. Different types of thresholding  Global, Iterative and adaptive. For intensity based segmentation the proposed method here is adaptive thresholding. Region Growing: It is a method that incorporates spatial information in the image along with the intensity information and is thus more advantageous to histogram based methods.  The algorithm starts at a user defined seed and based on the mean and standard deviation of the intensities within the local seed region connected pixels are either included or excluded in the segmentation results. A second input, a homogeneity metric, is used to decide how different a new pixel can be from the statistics of the region already selected and can still be included in the segmentation. This process is repeated until the entire region of interest has been dissected or the segmented region does not change.

Finally, metrics such as Dice similarity coefficient, Hausdorff distance, Jaccard’s similarity coefficient are used for comparing segmented images with the manually constructed ground truth. This helps us evaluate accuracy of our results. These algorithms to verify are applied on considerable number of PET/CT images and their average is found respectively. This gives us an understanding on which technique gives us a better result.
We observe that the segmented results much faster than manual segmentation and more reliable. The above project is helpful in providing a semi-automatic mechanism for image segmentation successfully. Tools used are Matlab, Image J, RadiAnt.
 
